Today, the landscape of wearable devices is vast and only increasing.
In part because of the miniaturization of electronics and sensors,
they are much more capable than before.
For example, Apple Watch came out in 2015 and tries to track activity,
heart rate, exercise, sleep.
The newer model even has an ECG sensor on it for measuring your heart rhythm.
Beyond that, there are shoe sensors, underwearables,
things like compression shorts and even wearables for your baby,
Pampers has a Smart Diaper and more.
But the sensors don't produce meaningful metrics automatically.
For example, the sensor on a Fitbit doesn't produce a pulse rate or a step count.
Instead, they send some underlying raw signal for step counted be motion.
Then algorithms will process this raw motion data
into various activity classifications or step counts.
This course will teach you how to build those signal
processing and machine learning algorithms that
process raw wearable data and produce more clinically meaningful metrics.
We will use real datasets from real wearables throughout this course,
which means that you'll run into some of
the same pitfalls that practitioners in the industry do.
The course focuses on three main sensors for a wrist wearable.
The IMU sensor which measures motion.
The PVG sensor which measures the blood flow at the wrist,
and the ECG sensor which measures electrical activity in the heart.
But the skills you'll develop and the algorithms you'll learn about in
this class will be transferable to a broad spectrum of devices and sensors.
You'll be working intimately with time series signals in this course.
So before we jump in, we'll do a quick review of basic time series signal processing,
as well as learn some plotting tools to help us explore the data.
We'll then cover how the sensors we're dealing with work.
Then we'll deep-dive into
the IMU sensor and learn how to use it to do activity classification.
That's going to help build useful context around how the wearer spends their time,
how much exercise they get,
how mobile they are and so on.
Next, we will look at the ECG sensor and learn how
we can use it to detect cardiovascular arrhythmias.
Finally, in the final project,
you'll use the PPG sensor to derive pulse rate.
You'll learn techniques to produce good results even while the wearer's exercising,
which as you will soon learn,
causes all sorts of problems.
But before we get started, I want to talk about
a very interesting clinical study involving wearables in the next video.